We've seen how to access individual values out of a dictionary just like with lists let's see how we
access all of them.
How do we iterate over a dictionary using loops so iterating over the list is a bit more straightforward
because a list on it's own is already iterable.
All we have to do is just you know for now in whatever the list name for name and numbers for color
in colors there's a little extra step we have to do with a dictionary.
So suppose we have this dictionary same one instructor has all sorts of keys and values of all different
types.
If we wanted to print every single piece of information out every value we could do something like this.
Blah blah blah you know you see where I'm going here.
Print instructor name print instructor own dog and what a surprise.
This is not a good way of doing things.
And this sets us up to see the real way of doing things using a for loop.
So this sets us up to see the real way of doing things using a for loop.
And there's actually a couple of options because we have no keys and values.
We'll see how to loop through the Keys.
We'll see how to loop through the values and then we'll see how to do both at the same time.
So let's start with the values.
Typically that's the more important information that you want out.
There's a dot values method.
So on any sort of dictionary we can run instructor dot values and this will give us an iterable collection
then we can run a for loop with.
So you know just like any other for loop.
This is up to us.
You could call it value you could call it key if you wanted to it's not going to be a key but you can
name it whatever you want in V V and value are probably the most common in structured values colon.
And then we can do something with the value.
So let's try it out here I'll just paste in a dictionary and if we just do instructor taught values
you'll see it returns this dict values thing.
It doesn't really matter exactly what this is at this point.
We'll learn more about them later.
But what does matter is that it's Luper bullet iterable we can loop through it.
So now I can do me recall that and just do a four v in instructor dot values.
Colin let's just do print the.
And there we go.
We get cold true for Python false.
It's giving us the values so we can also do the exact same thing for keys just keys.
Otherwise it's identical.
So if we just looked at the keys to start we get name on dog of course his favorite language is hilarious.
And 44.
And then if we just redid that loop.
But dumb.
And let's just print the key.
Well I actually love it as V.
So I'll just print V.
Not the best name for keys but it does the exact same thing and we get name on dog courses and so on.
OK.
So those two things you can do them.
But a lot of the time you'll probably want to access both.
And so for that we use dot items.
It's another method and if we just run items on instructor you'll see what we get back.
Is this dict items.
So we had dict keys dicts values dict items.
These are the loop of all iterable collection versions of a dictionary.
Basically they're made to pass on to a for loop so that we can loop through them and you can see here
we end up with no name and code it doesn't really matter exactly what this is.
We will talk with them.
But you can see we end up with some structure that is a loop.
So we just pass it in as a for loop.
But the difference is we don't just have one piece of data so it's not for v and instruct your donkeys
or for value or for key we need key and value.
So what we can do is just write two variables here.
Totally up to us.
What we call them but the first one will be the key and the second one represents a value.
So the name doesn't matter.
And then we have access to both of them inside the loop.
So we could do something like for k comma V in instructor dot items.
Colin let's do an F string and let's do key.
So all right key is and interpolate the key K and value is.
And then interpolate the and there we go kids name and value is called key is own dog and value is true
and so on.
So this is a very common loop that you'll see when we're working with dictionaries K and V are key and
value are the most commonly used variable names but you can do whatever you want.
So that's the basics of looping through dictionaries.
There's three methods we can take advantage of values if you want to loop through the values that keys
if you want either for the keys and most commonly that items if we want both at the same time we just
need to provide two variable names and then we have access to key and value each time through that loop.
And remember there is no specific order guaranteed.
Instead of a dictionary unlike a list where you know we have at index 0 1 2 3 4 order is ingrained within
the list in a dictionary things are more blobby and the less structured and that just floating around
in there.
So just be aware that there is no guarantee of order.